
* * *

##  TSANG KAY PING ALIAS TSANG TING AND OTHERS v. LO WAI YU AND ANOTHER [1986]
HKCFI 399; HCA 2132/1980 (12 March 1986)

HCA002132/1980

1980, No. 2132

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF HONG KONG

HIGH COURT

____________

BETWEEN

TSANG KAY PING alias TSANG TING 1st Plaintiff  
TSANG FAT YAM (an infant) by TSANG KAY PING alias TSANG TING his father and
next friend 2nd Plaintiff  
and  
LO WAI YU 1st Defendant  
YEUNG SHAT LING 2nd Defendant  
  
_____________

Coram: Hon. Hunter, J. in Court

Dates of Hearing: 14th, 17th & 18th of February, 1986

Date of Delivery of Judgment: 12th March, 1986

___________

JUDGMENT

___________

1. In many respects this is a most unfortunate action. It arises out of a motor accident which took place as long ago as 6th June 1977. Early that morning the two named plaintiffs, who are father (whom I shall hereafter call the plaintiff) and son (whom I shall refer to as the son since he has abandoned his claim) boarded a PLB driven by the 1st defendant andowned by the 2nd defendant. They were the only passengers. The plaintiff sat in a single seat on the near side of the vehicle behind the door. The son sat on the right of the back seat. The vehicle travelled along Castle Peak Road in the direction of Yuen Long. It was very windy and very wet. A dog suddenly started across the road. The 1st defendant tried to brake to avoid it. Unhappily he under-estimated the lack of adhesion between his wheels and the road surface in the prevailing very wet conditions. The PLB went out of control. It performed a complete circle to the left. The middle of its off-side struck a tree on the edge of the road. It then fell back on to the road on to its near side. The dog was killed.

2. The 1st defendant gave his evidence with candour and I think accuracy. I accept it in preference to both the plaintiff and the son. He acted instinctively and out of humanity. But to escape the obvious inference of negligence arising from his vehicle's manoeuvre, he has to show that this happened without negligence on his part. This he cannot do. His inability to perform an emergency stop without losing all control, demonstrates, I fear, that he was driving too fast in the prevailing conditions. This case is quite different from that of Parkinson v. Liverpool Corporation (1950) 1ALL ER 367 to which counsel for the plaintiff very properly referred me. It is the 1st defendant's misfortune to have his humane act dubbed as negligence. It' is the 2nd defendant's misfortune to be held vicariously liable as she has not sought to rebut the inference of agency arising from ownership.

3. The defendant's second major misfortune is that they insured the vehicle with the failed Singapore Insurance Co. This has materially affected this action. It was started in 1980 and then not taken beyond pleadings. Nothing happened until August 1985, when a notice of intention to proceed was given following the grant of legal aid to the plaintiffs. This revival was no doubt the result of statements then emanating from the Motor Insurers Bureau which suggested that successful plaintiffs and unsuccessful defendants in the position of these parties had a reasonable expectation of help from that quarter. I hope this is true. It is what the parties deserve. But if it is, an important defect in the system is revealed. In a case like this no one, it seems, is under any obligation to notify or warn the MIB. It therefore took no steps to arrange representation. The defendants were refused legal aid years ago, on I hope and must assume, financial grounds. The Court was thus left without any legal or medical assistance from the defendants, in a case raising very serious and difficult questions on quantum both as to the injuries in fact suffered and as to their effect upon the plaintiff's life and working capacity.

4. The problem arises in this way. After the accident the plaintiff was taken to Princess Margaret Hospital. He was admitted to Surgical Ward A. After 6 days he was transferred to the Orthopaedic Ward, and one day later was discharged. In his report dated 14th November 1977 Dr. Wong of the Orthopaedic Department described the plaintiff's condition in the following terms:

> "There were-multiple lacerations over the head, right shoulder and right
side of the back. Abrasions were found over the right elbow, right leg, right
shoulder and right side of the back. X-ray revealed fracture of the right
scapula bone.

>

> Surgical toilet and suturing were done for the lacerations".

5. Dr. Wong may well have had no personal knowledge of the plaintiff's condition on admission, and in all probability took the quoted information from the records made available to him on transfer. He was not called to give evidence, and no attempt was made to produce the hospital records (if indeed they still exist). It must be noted that this report makes no reference to any injury to the head: to loss of consciousness: amnesia: possible brain damage: or fractured ribs.

6. In December 1977 and January 1978 the plaintiff was seen by Dr. Wedderburn and Dr. Cheung. In their reports dated 14th December 1977 and 30th January 1978, Dr. Wedderburn, and 24th January 1978, Dr. Cheung, they concluded:

(1) X-rays showed the fracture of the right scapula to have affected the
shoulder joint, but it had united in a good position and the x-ray alone
suggested that the plaintiff should then have had a good range of movement.
This, in fact, was far from being the case. There was a serious loss of
abduction in the right arm, because when it was raised to any extent the arm
and the shoulder joint moved as one. Dr. Cheung likened the position to an
"almost complete ankylosis (i.e. fusion) of the scapula to the humerus". In
evidence' he said that the plaintiff "fixed his shoulder so that I could not
move it". Dr. Wedderburn assessed' this impairment, which he then took to be
permanent, at 22% or 13% of the whole man. Heavy manual labour such as the
plaintiff had been performing before the accident as a caisson worker was
therefore excluded.,  
  
(2) X-rays were produced to Dr. Wedderburn, said to have been taken privately
of the plaintiff, which revealed fractures of the 1st, 4th and 5th ribs. These
had then healed satisfactorily.  
  
(3) Upon the basis of the post-accident history then given to him, which
suggested both concussion and post-traumatic amnesia, Dr. Wedderburn feared
some brain damage. Dr. Cheung's examination followed at his suggestion. Dr.
Cheung conducted an EEG and concluded that he could find no brain damage but
that the plaintiff had a "quite marked anxiety neurosis" which he hoped would
respond to drug or rehabilitation treatment. Dr. Wedderburn agreed with this
suggestion of treatment, and put this impairment at 10% but likely to be
amenable to treatment.  
  
(4) Both doctors referred to exaggeration in their reports, deliberate in the
case of Dr. Cheung. In evidence the doctor said that he thought the plaintiff
was deliberately falsifying the number of fingers he claimed he could see with
his arm extended to give a false impression of defective eye sight.  
  
7. The injuries set out in these reports were all pleaded in the Statement of Claim served in 1980: This also asserted a continuing inability to perform any work since the accident. For 5 years thereafter the action lay dormant. During this time the plaintiff received no such treatment as the doctor suggested, and likewise did almost no work. In 1985 the action was revived in the manner I have related. Also, and the two events may be related, some time in that year the plaintiff started to do some part-time dish-washing as a stand-in for his friends and relatives.

8. In preparation for the hearing the plaintiff was again examined by the same doctors: Their conclusions on this occasion in reports dated 24th October, Dr. Cheung, and 19th November 1985, Dr. Wedderburn, were very different.

(1) They found the plaintiff to have a full range of movement in his right arm
and that the muscles in each arm were normal and equal. There was no sign of
any wasting. Dr. Wedderburn said that his previously assessed permanent
impairment had been "entirely eliminated".  
  
(2) The reports are largely silent about neurosis, and in his evidence Dr.
Cheung said it had "almost subsided".  
  
(3) The plaintiff's complaints of dizziness, numbness on the right side of the
body and dulled intellect and memory were attributed to brain damage. A newly
performed brain scan revealed what was called a lesion "in the mid-parietal
lobe on the left side". This is not the part of the brain normally associated
with changes of personality. This lesion was revealed because that part
absorbed less x-ray than the apparently normal surrounding brain cells. Such
x-rays could reveal this difference, but not the cause. There were several
possible causes including natural illness. One such possibility was trauma. If
trauma was the cause, then this area could represent scar tissue. The doctors
were disposed to infer the fact of some head injury from the plaintiff's
admission to Surgical Ward A, from a loss of consciousness or post-traumatic
amnesia: and from the plaintiff's description of his own symptoms.  
  
(4) They concluded that this brain damage had caused what Dr. Wedderburn
described as "mental deficit". He repeated his 10% impairment assessment for
this element. This conclusion seems to have been based upon the impression the
doctors then formed of the plaintiff, as compared with an inference/assumption
of his pre-accident condition based solely upon his capacity to work as a
caisson worker.  
  
(5) Both doctors recognized the difficulty arising from the subjective nature
of the plaintiff's complaints and the lack of objective assessment or proof.
Dr. Webberburn in particular was concerned to report the marked difference
between the dull apathetic man he saw in his consulting room, and the
apparently animated, lively talkative man he later saw leaving the hospital.  
  
(6) The doctors disagreed about the plaintiff's working capacity and when he
had been fit to return to some work. Dr. Cheung's final view of a reasonable
period of unemployment was one year. Dr. Wedderburn's 2 to 2½years. In
evidence Dr. Cheung's view was that his working capacity "turns more on his
willingness to work than what he is capable of doing". He thought the
plaintiff had a physical capacity for heavy work except that he might have
pain in the right shoulder if it was over used. Dr. Wedderburn had, I think,
great difficulty in reeonciling three contradictory views on this aspect in
his three different reports.  
  
9. Copies of these reports were sent to the two defendants. Their understanding was probably slight and they did not try to obtain medical assistance. No application was then made to amend the Statement of Claim specifically to raise this allegation of brain damage. Such application was in fact made at the close of the plaintiff's case. Conscious of the defendants' complete inability to deal with or understand the position I deferred my ruling.

10. In relation to actual work the evidence was that before the accident the plaintiff worked as a sub-contractor in caisson work, digging mud and breaking rock. Although the loss of earnings claimed in the documents was continuous until 1985, the plaintiff gave evidence of two attempts to return to work between 1977 and 1985. In about 1979 (the son said 1978) he tried caisson work again. But after one day's work he had to take ten days off. He had insufficient strength in his right arm and suffered pain in the shoulder and ribs. After two further days' attempts, followed by days off, he gave up. At some later date he tried to work for two days digging road works trenches. But this also, he said, was too much. Apart from this he did nothing for nearly 8 years. He is illiterate. He said he did not know what other work he could do, and did not try to find any, or get help to find any.

11. 1985 brought the revival of the action and the commencement of parttime relief dish washing. He told Dr. Wedderburn he was earning sums ranging between $400 and $600 for 7/10 days' work in a month. He told me the range was $300/$400. He was very sensibly referred by the Director of Legal Aid to the Selective Placement Service (SPS) of the Labour Department. Their report was put'before me. In January last they offered him a job as a dish-washer at $2,000 a month. He declined for a number of reasons. He was convinced the job was too much for him. He could not travel there alone. This was a permanent job, and it would not be easy for him to find a relief when he wanted to take leave. He needed to look after his house when his wife was at.work. He declined further help from SPS, and in evidence said he was unable to suggest any work which might be within his capacity. These answers, I think, can be taken to represent the plaintiff's attitude to work substantially since the accident.

12. In these circumstances the first major question is how far can I accept the plaintiff as a credible, reliable witness. I regret to say that. my answer, for a number of reasons, is scarcely at all.

13. First, an unusual but significant issue arose as to the plaintiff's age. The hospital report gave his age as 50, and this figure must have emanated from him. He criticised it to Dr. Wedderburn, asserting that his true age was 43 which was. said to be the age in his ID Card. Dr. Cheung was.the first witness called. When attempting to formulate a question in cross-examination of Dr. Cheung, the 1st defendant said: "I am sure the plaintiff is 59". When I asked him why he put the question in this way his answer was "because I asked him a moment ago". He told me later in evidence that he has spoken to the plaintiff outside the Court before the trial started on the first day, had asked him his age, and had been given this answer. The plaintiff agreed that they spoke but denied the answer. I accept the 1st defendant's evidence. Further I think that in advancing this lower figure the plaintiff must have been aware of its implications in relation to his claim for loss of earnings.

14. Secondly, the doctors in considering this question of brain damage, relied heavily upon an alleged history of concussion and posttraumatic amnesia. I received a rather different account from that recorded by Dr. Wedderburn. Again I prefer the evidence of the 1st defendant. He said. that the plaintiff was lying, possibly unconscious, when he left to call the police after the accident. But on his return he saw the plaintiff getting to his hands and knees trying to climb out of the vehicle. This is consistent'with the hospital report: and inconsistent with the son's evidence that he was unconscious when last seen by him at the hospital, and with father's evidence that he recovered consciousness first just before he left the hospital some six days later. In the absence of any evidence from the hospital, or sight of the hospital records, it seems to me unsafe to draw any inference from his admission to a surgical ward, or from his wife and son's description of him at visiting hours. These events are nine years old. I have no idea whether, and if so what sedatives, or other drugs the plaintiff may then have been receiving.

15. Thirdly, the doctors were unanimous about the plaintiff's recovery in relation to the right shoulder and the rib fractures. But in the witness box the plaintiff claimed a loss of abduction of the right arm only a little less than that recorded by Dr. Wedderburn in 1977. He claimed to be suffering great pain if he attempted to raise his arm higher and an inability to do so. Likewise he complained of great pain over the right ribs and armpit much of the time he was in the box. I cannot accept this as true: The same, I think, must be said of the air of helplessness, suffering and dejection he presented in Court.

16. In these very difficult circumstances my findings upon the plaintiff's injuries are as follows:-

(1) I am not satisfied that he suffered any brain damage in this accident.
There is no sufficient connection on the evidence between this lesion and
trauma, let alone this particular trauma. I am not satisfied of any head
injury beyond lacerations, of anything more than possible momentary
concussion, or of any amnesia. The question of amending the Statement of Claim
is therefore academic. But if I had taken a different view I have great
difficulty in seeing how I could properly have allowed such a substantial
amendment so very late.  
  
(2) He suffered a fractured scapula which healed in good position. I believe
that when Dr. Wedderburn wrote on 14th December 1977 that "he should now have
good movement of the. shoulder joint" that is substantially what in fact he
.then enjoyed. But he then successfully practiced upon the doctors the same
deception that he attempted in the witness box, by, in Dr. Cheung's words,
"fixing" his shoulder. This, I think, is the most likely explanation of the
subsequent recovery which Dr. Wedderburn called "surprising".  
  
(3) He suffered three broken ribs which unhappily seem to have escaped notice
in hospital.  
  
(4) He suffered the multiple lacerations and abrasions described in the
hospital report.  
  
(5) He, no doubt, suffered the shock (I use the word in a non-medical sense)
of the accident, as well as the inevitable pain and suffering caused by his
physical injuries.  
  
(6) There was no evidence of any real personality change: nothing beyond
flashes of bad-temper and irritation at his disability: nothing to show that
what the doctors tried to record differed materially from his preaccident
condition. But I am prepared to accept that all these gave rise to something
like an anxiety neurosis. Some part of this may properly be attributable to
the accident. The balance is perhaps more attributable to a desire to obtain
favourable medical reports in support of his claim. One of the tragedies of
this case may well be that having once set out on that course, it had to be
maintained as long as there was any flicker of realistic life in this claim.
This may have contributed materially to the plaintiff's present condition.  
  
17. I must now attempt to convert these findings into money:

(1) Loss of earnings and earning capacity. Several different figures were
given to me and to the doctors for the plaintiff's pre-accident earnings. Not
a single document was produced. There was nothing to show whether his basic
rate was $80, as was said originally, or the $110 reached in the witness box:
nothing to show how many days on average were worked and how many were lost to
weather or other circumstances: nothing to show how many hours were worked an
an average working day. The best I can do is to take $80 as the rate: allow
about 26 working days: and adopt a monthly figure of $2,100. On my findings,
by the end of 1977 the lesser injuries had healed. There had been a
substantial recovery of movement in the right arm, but anxiety had crept in.
His sick leave certificates take him nearly to that time. So by the start of
1978 he was fit for some work, e.g. the lighter work I was told was available
to a man working at the top of the caisson. It may be that he was not then
fully able to return to his old work below. But had he been differently
motivated he would have tried and might have succeeded. Equally it may be that
he had reached an age when this type of work was becoming too much for him,
and the accident only accelerated his transition to lighter work. I can only
try to estimate the consequences of what might have happened had the plaintiff
been minded to try. My best attempt is to allow under this head:-  
  
(i) Total loss of wages in 1977 for

7 months at $2,100 a month ....................................... $14,700  
  
(ii) Plus an additional allowance of ...................................
$15,000  
  
(2) Pain, suffering and loss of amenity. There should have been substantial
recovery by 1978 subject to some residual pain in the shoulder. But the
attributable part of this anxiety neurosis intervened. I think a reasonable
figure to award under this head is $20,000.  
  
(3) Payments to herbalists and bonesetters. I fully accept the principles of
Yu Ki v. Chin Kit-lam (1981) HKLR 419, but have the greatest difficulty here
in ascertaining the truth. In December 1977 Dr. Wedderburn records the
plaintiff as saying that he had attended a bonesetter "daily for 4 months
costing $100 a day making a total of over $10,000". The number and periods of
attendances claimed before me were very much less. The plaintiff's wife said
that they only obtained 1 receipt at the time, because they did not then
realise their significance. This is very credible. But 4 receipts, purporting
to be contemporaneous, were in fact produced from herbalists. Three, totalling
$2,697 are reasonably modest. The fourth, from a man describing himself as an
"amateur herbalist" purports to charge $470 for each dose, and then produces a
total of $9,400 for ten doses. Neither the plaintiff nor his wife can read,
and therefore could not relate any receipt to any given event. In all the
circumstances of this case I am not satisfied that more than $3,000 was
expended upon such treatment, which is the figure I am prepared to allow as
reasonable. I am prepared to make no allowance for the protracted purchase of
tin ma over some 9 years which was first raised at the trial.  
  
18. In these circumstances my conclusion is that the plaintiff is entitled to judgment against both defendants in the sum of $52,700. I will hear counsel, but my present inclination is that in the peculiar circumstances of this case it would not be right to award any interest.

( D.S. Hunter )

Judge of the High Court  
  
Representation:

Mrs. Barnes instructed by D.L.A. for 1st Plaintiff.

Defendants in person.

