
* * *

##  TY KWEI-SANG v. FONG SUI-HOI T/A WEY HING INDUSTRIAL CO [1981] HKCFI 7;
HCA 6191/1980 (1 May 1981)

HCA006191/1980

1980, No. 6191  
  
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF HONG KONG

HIGH COURT

\-----------------

BETWEEN  
Ty kwei-sang also known as Cheng Kwai-sing Plaintiff  
and  
Fong Sui-hoi trading as Wey Hing Industrial Company Defendant  
  
\-----------------

Coram: Mr. Registrar Roy in Chambers.

Date of Judgment: 1 May, 1981.

Mr. W.A. Endean instructed by the Director of Legal Aid for Plaintiff.

Defendant in person.

\-----------------

JUDGMENT

\-----------------

This is an assessment of damages consequent upon interlocutory judgment having
been entered against the defendant on the 10th day of January, 1981.

Damages are sought in respect of injuries suffered by the plaintiff on the
29th day of August, 1979 when his right hand was caught and crushed in a
moulding machine at his place of work.

The injuries sustained by the plaintiff involved the amputation of the four
fingers of his right hand at mid-palm level. In addition, he suffered damage
to the function of his thumb.

General Damages

(1) Pain, suffering and loss of amenities

Immediately after the accident the plaintiff was admitted into Queen Mary
Hospital Orthopaedic Ward and operations were carried out on 29th August, 1979
and again on 7th September, 1979. Following his discharge from hospital
shortly afterwards he had to report several times a week for dressings and
later for physiotherapy. Subsequently a Medical Assessment issued by the
Medical Board of Queen Mary Hospital on 28th December, 1979 showed the
plaintiff's permanent disability to be 46%.

A medical report from Dr. R.G.M. Wedderburn dated 3rd June, 1980, some 9
months after the accident, put the extent of the plaintiff's disability at 76%
impairment of the hand and 41% of impairment of the whole man. The plaintiff's
permanent loss of earning capacity was considered to be 55%. It is obvious
that Dr. Wedderburn conducted a thorough examination and I am satisfied that
his report constitutes a fair and balanced account of his medical findings as
regards the plaintiff's injuries resulting from the accident.

The plaintiff undoubtedly sustained considerable pain and suffering as a
result of his injuries. He stated in evidence that he still suffers from an
apparent irritation or itchiness in the fingers, commonly referred to as
phantom limb symptoms. The weather also affects the comfort of his hand.
Naturally as a right-handed person he is no longer able to perform many common
everyday tasks satisfactorily, such as using chopsticks, assisting his wife
around the house and dressing himself. He was supplied with a stiff plastic
cuff or glove covering the stump and from which a thin metal rod protrudes
widening at the tip to an oval pad. To a limited extent he can use this for
gripping or lifting. He was also fitted at one stage with a primitive type of
artificial hand but he found it uncomfortable and does not normally wear it.
There is no doubt that his normal pattern of living has been seriously
disturbed, since for most practical purposes his right hand is virtually
useless. In addition his injuries will no doubt be a source of some
embarrassment to him.

I have been referred to a number of Hong Kong cases but none are directly in
point. In Lee Ting-lam v. Leung Kam-ming (Civil Appeal No. 11 of 1980) the
Court of Appeal divided disablement into four categories according to
severity. I am satisfied that the plaintiff's injury leaves a disability which
considerably mars his general activities and enjoyment of life. As such it
falls within the first category of serious injury referred to in that case. In
all the circumstances, I believe a proper award under this head of damages
would be $65,000.

(2) Loss of future earnings

At the date of his accident the plaintiff had been employed as an injection
moulding machine operator for more than a year. His identity card was produced
to me at the hearing and I am satisfied he was aged 36 at the time of the
accident. About four months after the accident he was able to return to his
employment but due to his injuries could not perform the same work. He was
assigned to less skilled work in the packaging department and as a result
suffered a loss of production incentive bonuses and overtime.

Statements covering the plaintiff's total earnings (including bonuses and
overtime) from his employment with the defendant during the period from
September, 1978 to March, 1981 were produced. Although I was asked to find
that these supported a loss of earnings of approximately $525 per month due to
the accident, I consider a more accurate figure is $427 per month. For eight
complete months prior to the accident I find on the information available that
his average monthly pre-accident earnings were $1,709. On a similar basis from
January, 1980 to the end of February, 1981 (omitting May and September) his
average monthly post-accident earnings are $1,282. The use of these longer
periods in calculating average monthly earnings minimises the effect of
seasonal fluctuations which I am told are a feature of the plastics business.
I therefore adopt $427 as my multiplicand.

Taking all the circumstances into account including lump sum award, the age of
the plaintiff, the degree of his permanent disability and the vicissitudes of
life, I intend to adopt a multiplier of 12. This gives a figure of $61,488 for
future loss of earnings.

(3) Loss of earning capacity

I was asked to award a separate sum under this head in view of the difficulty
the plaintiff would encounter in finding other employment should he lose his
present job and be thrown on to the labour market. There was, however,
evidence that the defendant valued the services of the plaintiff and in fact
telephoned him and asked him to return to his employment. The defendant also
said in evidence that the plaintiff is a good worker and he wishes to continue
employing him. I am satisfied the plaintiff is assured of employment in the
foreseeable future, albeit at a rate of earnings below that which he enjoyed
previously, and the risk of his being thrown on to the labour market is
negligible.

In Lee Woon-sun v. Wong Kin-keung & Ors. (1976) HKLR at page 301 Huggins, J.A.
had this to say "Although I appreciate that in assessing loss of earning
capacity one may have to have regard to various possible elements of damage,
it seems to me that to treat loss of future earnings as an entirely distinct
head of damage is wholly artificial and liable to cause confusion. In the
present case the loss of earning capacity can properly be assessed solely by
reference to loss of future earnings".

With respect, that appears to me to be the position in this case. There is
clearly an ascertainable and quantifiable loss of future earnings. In the
circumstances I make no separate award under this head.

Special Damages

(1) Loss of earnings

Having fixed plaintiff's average pre-accident earnings at $1,709 per month,
the sum of $6,836 is awarded for the period of four months up to 1st January,
1980. From then until the end of October, 1980 when the writ was issued the
loss must be calculated at $427 per month, which is $4,270. The total awarded
under this head is therefore $11,106.

(2) Hospital fees

I award $86 under this head, being the amount claimed.

(3) Transport expenses

The amount claimed is $100 representing fares to and from hospital for the
plaintiff and also for his mother who at that time was his only relative in
Hong Kong. I allow this sum.

From the general damages awarded and totalling $126,488 will have to be
deducted the sum of $40,355.33 being the amount paid by the defendant to the
plaintiff under the Workmen's Compensation Ordinance. The balance will bear
interest at the rate of 12 1½% per annum from date of service of the writ to
date of payment. Special damages of $11,292 will attract interest at 5% per
annum from the date of accident until payment.

The plaintiff is entitled to his costs to be taxed in accordance with the
Legal Aid Regulations.

Dated this 3rd day of April, 1981.

(J.G. Roy)  
Assistant Registrar  
  
Representation:

Mr. W.A. Endean instructed by the Director of Legal Aid for Plaintiff.

Defendant in person.

